2 Chapter #1
sizing and current levels can easily be derived from such simple expressions. They can then be
used to simulate the circuit performance by means of a conventional circuit simulator such as
SPICE or ELDO.
In these simulators, models are used which are much more accurate but also much more
complicated. These simulations are required afterwards to verify the circuit performance. The
initial design with simple models is the first step in the design procedure. They are aimed
indeed at the determination of all transistor currents and sizes, according to the specifications
imposed.
We start with MOST devices, although the bipolar transistor are historically first. Nowadays
the number of MOS transistors integrated on chips, vastly outnumber the bipolar ones.
013
Indeed, previously CMOS
devices were reserved for
logic as they offer the high-
est density (in gates/mm2).
Most high-frequency cir-
cuitry was carried out in
bipolar technology. As a
result, a lot of analog func-
tions were realized in bipo-
lar technology. The highest-
frequency circuits have been
realized in exotic technol-
ogies such as GaAs and now
InP technologies. They are
quite expensive however
and really reserved for the
high frequency end.
The channel length of CMOS transistors shrinks continuously however. In 2004, a channel
length of 0.13 micrometer is standard but several circuits using 90 nm have already been published
(see ISSCC). This ever decreasing channel length gives rise to ever increasing speeds. As a result,
CMOS devices are capable of gain at ever higher frequencies.
Today CMOS and bipolar technologies are in competition over a wide frequency region,
extending all the way to 10 and even 40 GHz, as predicted in this slide. For these frequencies
the question is indeed, which technology fulfills best the system and circuit requirements at a
reasonable cost. BICMOS is always more expensive than standard CMOS technology. The
question is, whether the increase in cost compensates the increase in performance?