6 Chapter #1
It is mportant, however, to note that the channel inversion layer is coupled to the Gate by
means of C , but as much coupled to the Bulk by C . Changing the Gate voltage will thus
ox D
change the conductivity of the channel and hence the current I . In a similar way, changing
DS
the Bulk voltage will thus also change the conductivity of the channel and will thus change the
current I as well. The top gate gives the MOST operation, whereas the bulk gives JFET
DS
operation. Indeed, a Junction FET is by definition a FET in which the current is controlled by
a junction capacitance.
All MOST devices are thus parallel combinations of MOSTs and JFETs. We normally use
only the MOST whereas the JFET is called the body effect, and is treated as a parasitic effect.
0110
The width of the depletion
region depends to a large
extent on doping levels and
the voltage across it. The
larger the doping levels on
both sides of the junction,
the narrower the depletion
region is. On the other hand,
the larger the voltage is
across the depletion region,
the wider this region
becomes, as shown by the
equation.
It includes the silicon
dielectric constant e , the
si
junction built-in voltage Q,
the charge of an electron q and the bulk doping level N . Values are given in this slide.
B
For example for a 0.35 mm technology, a drain-bulk voltage V yields a depletion layer
BD
thickness of about 0.1 nm. It is about 14 times thicker than the gate oxide. This is offset somewhat
by the fact that the silicon dielectric constant is three times higher than the oxide one. Silicon is
three times more efficient to make capacitors with than oxide. Silicon capacitances are very
nonlinear because they depend on the voltage, whereas oxides capacitances do not.
The ratio n−1 is then about 0.2. Most values of n are indeed between 1.2 and 1.5, depending
on the value of t . Parameter n is thus never known accurately as it depends on biasing voltages.
si
Note that all capacitances are in F/cm2. For a Gate area of WL of 5×0.35×0.35 mm2 the
total Gate oxide capacitance is thus C WL#5 fF, which is quite a small value indeed!
ox
0111
The bulk doping level N is not the same for a nMOST and a pMOST device. Indeed normally
B
nMOST devices are implemented directly on the p-substrate. This substrate is thus common to
all nMOS transistors on that chip.
The pMOS transistor has a p-channel however and has to be implemented in a n-tub or
n-well, which is always higher doped than the common p-substrate. The disadvantage is that the
bulk doping for a pMOST is always higher than the bulk doping of a nMOST. The pMOST