22 Chapter #1
inversion. This is true for values of V −V larger than about 0.2 V, corresponding to inversion
GS T
coefficients larger than 8. This corresponds to currents of 1.6 mA per unit W/L for a nMOST.
This current is multiplied by five if a V −V is used of 0.5 V.
GS T
For very small currents (i<0.1), the transistor is clearly in the weak-inversion region. Its
characteristic is a straight line because of the semilog scales.
The region between (0.1<i<10) is called the moderate-inversion region. It provides a smooth
transition between both regions.
An interesting point is at V −V =0 V. This is the point where the input voltage V equals
GS T GS
the threshold voltage V . At this point the current is half of the transition current I . It is
T DSt
about 0.1 mA per unit W/L. This is an often used way to measure the threshold voltage V . It is
T
the voltage V at a current of 0.1 mA per unit W/L.
GS
Another interesting point is at V −V =80 V. This is the point where the actual crossover
GS T
occurs from weak to strong inversion. At this point the current is about twice the current I .
DSt
0140
The transconductance g is
m
now easily calculated, as it
is the derivative of the cur-
rent. Instead the ratio
g /I is taken and normal-
m DS
ized to nkT/q. It is denoted
by GM. The approxim-
ations for strong inversion (i
>10) and weak inversion (i
<0.1) are easily obtained.
The full expression is
plotted in the next slide.
Sometimes an alternative
function is used to describe
the transition region. It is a
little closer to measured
data. It involves square roots however, instead of exponentials. For strong inversion, it provides
the same approximation. However, for weak inversion, it is slightly smaller.
Both functions are plotted in the next slide.
0141
Both models for the normalized transconductance to current ratio are plotted versus the inversion
coefficient in this slide. Both go through the same point at i=1. The difference is small. This is
why the expression with the exponential will be used further.
Note that, at an inversion coefficient of 8, where the V −V is 0.2 V, the normalized GM is
GS T
about 1/3 of the maximum value in weak inversion. The corresponding g /I is about 4.2 V−1.
m DS
This is nearly ten times less than for a bipolar transistor. In order to boost this ratio, we must
choose a smaller V −V . For a value of 0.15 V, the ratio g /I is already 5.4 V−1 and for
GS T m DS
0.1 V close to 7 V−1.