34 Chapter #1
and for large channel length L. For high frequency designs, such as VCO’s and LNA’s, it is
exactly the opposite.
Remember that setting the values of V −V is the same as setting the ratio of g /I or the
GS T m DS
same as setting the inversion coefficient i=I /I .
DS DSt
0163
For a specific V −V , the
GS T
frequencies f are easily plot-
T
ted versus channel length L,
as shown in this slide. The
one for velocity saturation is
independent of V −V but
GS T
has a lower slope.
The frequencies f for sat-
T
uration is in blue; the ones
in strong inversion are for
V =0.2 V in black, for
GST
V =0.5 V in red, and for
GST
V =1 V in magenta.
GST
It is striking to see that f
T
values in this slide 100 GHz
are readily available, at least
for CMOS processes with channel lengths below 0.13 mm. Note also that from this technology,
velocity saturation dominates even for V −V values of only 0.2 V.
GS T
For V =0.2 V, the crossover is somewhere below 90 nm channel length. For high-frequency
GST
applications however, in which V =0.5 V or higher, the crossover value in L is about 0.25 mm.
GST
For hand calculations, we need a model for f that encompasses both the strong-inversion
T
region and the velocity-saturation region. This is given next.
Note, however, that some experimental upper frequencies are added of VCO’s and LNA’s.
They are on a curve labeled f , which are about 1/5 of f . Also some clock frequencies are
max T
added for some present-day microprocessors. They are at about 1/100 of f !
T
0164
A simple model for f which spans both regions of operation, the strong-inversion and the
T
velocity-saturation region, is simply obtained by substitution of the transconductance g by its
m
expression covering both regions. Also C can be substituted by 2W.
GS
The resulting expression is a useful tool to predict high-frequency performance. It will be used
in many later Chapters to establish upper limits of frequency performance.
Obviously, the transition values of channel length L, for specific values of V −V are the
GS T
same as for the transconductance g . For V −V =0.2 V, channel lengths below 65 nm provide
m GS T
operation fully in velocity saturation.