Comparison of MOST and bipolar transistors 41
(1.6×10−19 C). Parameter T is the absolute temperature (in Kelvin or in degrees Celsius plus
273). At 20°C (or 86°F) kT/q is 25.86 mV. We will usually take 26 mV as the actual operating
temperature may be higher. In power application this temperature may be a lot higher!
The beauty of this scaling constant kT/q is that it is not changing from one technology to the
next. It only contains fundamental physical parameters and the absolute temperature. This is
one of the major advantages of the bipolar transistor. The second advantage of a bipolar
transistor is that its characteristic is an exponential, which is mathematically the steepest curve
around. Its derivative or the transconductance will be higher than for any other semiconductor
device.
Its main disadvantage however is that a Base current is flowing, which is a fraction 1/b of the
collector current, and which is never well known.
0176
The small-signal model of a
bipolar transistor is now
easily derived.
The transconductance g
m
is the derivative of the
I −V curve. The g /I
CE BE m CE
ratio is simply one over
kT/q. This is close to 40 per
V, which is a lot larger than
for a MOST. This is clearly
one of the advantages of a
bipolar transistor.
The bipolar transistor
also has a finite output resis-
tance r . It can be modeled
o
by an Early Voltage V .
E
Note that this V actually depends on the Base width, which is however, not a degree of freedom
E
in a vertical npn, only in a lateral pnp as in MOST design. This value of V is given by the
E
technology description. It decreases for narrower Base widths.
In order to accommodate the small-signal Base current, a resistor is added at the input. It is
called r . It is the derivative of the I −V curve. As a result it contains both the transconduct-
p BE BE
ance g and current gain factor b. As this factor b is never accurately known, this resistor r is
m p
not well known either. It certainly depends on the current. For a current of 0.1 mA and a b of
about 100, this resistor is about 26 kV. This is a rather low value and imprecise. It cannot be
allowed to play an important role in high-precision circuitry.
Finally, a Base resistor r has to be added in series with the input. It is an ohmic resistance
B
which is mainly the resistance of p-Base region between the Emitter side and the Base contact.
0177
As a bipolar transistor is built up with many junctions, it contains many junction capacitances.
The most important ones are the Base-Emitter junction capacitance C and the Collector-
jBE
Substrate junction C .
CS