Amplifiers, source followers and cascodes 71
b+1 or simply b. A bipolar transistor only provides a limited amount of isolation between input
and output, which is about b. The higher the beta the better the isolation. A MOST, which has
a beta of infinity also provides infinite isolation.
The same is true for the input resistance. It can never be infinite, as for a MOST source
follower. It will be the resistance seen at the emitter, multiplied by the beta. This may be
insufficient for some preamplifiers (microphone, etc). This is why, quite often, a few emitter
followers are cascaded.
0241
At higher frequencies,
a source follower looses
its buffer capabilities.
Moreover, it can show
peaking.
Indeed, including all three
transistor capacitances in
the small-signal model,
yields an expression for the
gain which is quite compli-
cated. The best way to
explore this, is to draw a
pole-zero position diagram,
with one particular parame-
ter as a variable. Here the
transconductance is chosen,
as it depends directly on the current. The current stands for the power consumption.
Two poles can be extracted from the roots of the denominator. One zero is also present.
In the middle, a hatched region emerges, where the lines of f and f cross. In this region the
d nd
poles are complex. They cause peaking in the Bode diagram.
It is clear that there is an optimum current for such a Source-follower that is actually quite
small. For very low currents, the f (or bandwidth) is too small, and increases with the current.
d
For higher currents, complex poles develop and for even higher currents the bandwidth ceases
to increase. The optimum is thus at the bottom point of the complex pole region. Let us find
the corresponding current.
0242
The value of the transconductance, which goes through the middle of the complex-pole region
is denoted by g . It is given in this slide. It depends on the source resistor and the capacitance
mr
C from gate to ground. Adding capacitance to the gate allows us to reduce the transconductance
DG
or current where the peak is the worst.
The width of that region is given by Dg . It can be made small by increasing
mr
indeed the capacitance C at the gate. This is called ‘‘compensating the source follower’’. What
DG
actually happens is that a low-pass filter is added before the source follower, avoiding complex
poles to appear.