80 Chapter #2
load capacitance C is obviously dominant again. Again, there is a non-dominant pole at f ,
L nd
caused by time constant C /g . If g is similar to g , then this non-dominant pole is a lot
m m2 m2 m1
higher than the GBW, as C is definitely a lot larger than C .
L m
For high values of C however, the time constant r C takes over. This is never likely to
m o1 m
occur, as for this region C must be larger than A C , which is a very high capacitance indeed.
m v2 L
0258
Ideal DC current sources do
not exist, however. They
have to be realized by means
of transistors. Such a real-
ization is shown in this slide.
MOSTs M3 and M4 are
used in series to give a DC
current source with an high
output resistance.
If the output resistance of
transistors M1/M2 is about
the same as the output resis-
tance of transistors M3/M4,
then the total output resis-
tance R is about half of
out
that.
The bandwidth is obviously determined by the load capacitance. The GBW is then the same
as for a single-transistor amplifier.
This cascode configuration is called the Telescopic cascode, as all transistors are in series
between supply line and ground.
The main disadvantage of this cascode is that all transistors must be kept in the saturation
region. This means that the minimum voltage v across each transistor is about V −V . If
DS GS T
we take V −V #0.2 V, we find that the maximum output voltage cannot be higher than the
GS T
supply voltage minus 0.4 V, and cannot be lower than 0.4 V. The maximum swing is thus 0.8 V
lower than the supply voltage. This is a major loss for low supply voltages!
0259
A folded cascode is used more often, because it has some advantages when used as a differential
circuit (see Chapter 8). It is called ‘‘folded’’ because the cascode transistor is now a pMOST
rather than a nMOST. The small-signal current i , which is determined by the input transistor
ds1
M1, now flows upwards rather than downwards through the cascode transistor M2.
Normally the biasing current I is equally split up over the two transistors, so that the DC
B1
currents in both transistors are the same. The two current swings are also the same.
All other specifications such as the gain, the bandwidth and the GBW, are the same as for a
telescopic cascode. Note, however, that the current consumption is twice that of a telescopic
cascode.
Moreover, the maximum output voltage swing is about the same. If we realize the current