100 Chapter #3
The same is true for the negative supply V . The same is also true for the ground. Ground
SS
noise, caused by digital circuits on the same substrate, will be added to both inputs and will
thus be rejected by the differential input. As a result the CMRR (Common-mode Rejection
Ratio) will be high. All these factors, PSRR and CMRR will be discussed in more detail in
Chapter 12.
A differential pair is therefore nothing more than a single-transistor amplifier, carried out in
a differential way, in order to be able to cope with common-mode disturbances.
0322
The output voltage versus
input voltage is illustrated in
this slide.
For small input voltages,
the gain is simply g R . It
m L
is the slope of the character-
istic around zero.
For larger input voltages,
the output level saturates to
a voltage R I . For even
L B
larger input voltages the
output voltage is constant.
The curve in between is
actually a parabola, desc-
ribed by the equation on the
previous slide.
For small input voltages, the factor under the square root is simply unity. What remains in
that expression is simply g .
m
For an input voltage equal to √2(V −V ) the top of the parabola is reached. The tangent
GS T
at this point provides a very smooth transition to a constant output voltage.
It is clear that V −V is the parameter that controls both the g and the range. For a small
GS T m
V −V , the gain is high (with a steep slope) but the range is small. For RF receivers a large
GS T
V −V is preferred; the range is wide but the gain is small. Moreover, a large V −V , provides
GS T GS T
a highfrequency response.
0323
Bipolar transistors have an even lower V −V , or specifically kT/q. The gain is thus very high
GS T
but the range very small. For small input voltages, the gain is again g R . It is the slope of the
m L
characteristic around zero.
For larger input voltages, the output level saturates again to a voltage R I . For even larger
L B
input voltages the output voltage is constant. The curve in between consists of exponentials such
that a smooth transition is guaranteed. The actual curve will be calculated on the next slide.
It is clear that there is no way to control both the g and the range. They are always set by
m
kT/q. The only way to change this ratio is to insert emitter resistors. The larger the resistor, the
wider the range but the smaller the small-signal gain becomes.