Noise performance of elementary transistor stages 121
However, the bandwidth BW also contains R . As a result R is cancelled out in the expression
S S
of the integrated noise. A very simple result emerges. The integrated noise is simply kT/C .
L
For 1 pF the integrated noise is 65 mV . For less noise, we have to increase the size of the
RMS
capacitance. For 10 pF that would be 65/√10 or about 21 mV .
RMS
This can be understood by realizing that for larger resistors, the noise increases but the
bandwidth is reduced by exactly the same amount.
Filters all use the integrated noise as a specification or the SNR. They all use large capacitances
to increase their SNR, and an amplitude which is as high as possible.
049
In this way we reach the
important conclusion that
noise density depends on the
resistor and integrated noise
depends on the capacitance.
For low noise density we
need a small series resistance
(or large parallel resistance).
For low integrated or
total noise, we need a large
capacitance to ground.
Both obviously depend
on absolute temperature.
A designer will therefore
have to determine whether
he deals with a narrow-band
system (receivers, bandpass filters, ...) or a wide-band system (switched-capacitor filters, low-pass
filters, ...).
In a narrow-band system, the narrow band noise (spot noise) is the noise density, multiplied
by the bandwidth. The resistances determine the noise performance.
In a wide-band system, the kT/C noise is dominant. For low noise, we have to increase the
capacitances. Doing this will obviously increase the power consumption.
This is a rule of thumb. Low noise requires smaller resistances and or larger capacitances.
Both increase the power consumption. Increasing the noise performance inevitably leads to larger
power consumption. A low-noise low-power circuit requirement certainly leads to a severe
compromise!
0410
A resistor also exhibits 1/f noise.
In general, 1/f noise is dependent on size and the quality of conduction (or homogeneity).
This is why the expression for the 1/f noise is a result of fitting lots of data. It contains the
DC voltage across the resistor, the size (A or WL) and a factor KF , that indicates what
R R
material is to be used.
For example a n-well resistor is single-crystalline silicon. This material is very homogeneous.
As a result the KF factor is small.
R