142 Chapter #4
Both are equivalent! Indeed the noise voltage is squared at the end of the calculations. As a
result, it does not make any difference whether the noise is applied to the positive or negative
side. We prefer the side where it is easier to do the calculations!
As a result, the total equivalent input noise source is simply twice the noise voltage power of
one single transistor.
A differential amplifier always gives √2 or 41% more input noise voltage than a single
amplifier. The lowest-noise amplifiers are single-input. On the other hand, these single-input
amplifiers are much more sensitive to substrate noise. The debate on whether to use differential
input amplifiers in RF receivers for example, is therefore still ongoing.
0450
A voltage differential ampli-
fier with single-ended out-
put is shown in this slide.
The noise sources of all four
transistors are added by
their current sources.
This is a circuit with two
equal halves. If we know the
input noise power for one
halve, we simply multiply
by two.
Moreover each half con-
sists of an amplifying tran-
sistor loaded by a current
source. We already know
how to reduce the noise con-
tribution of the current source. We simply design it with a larger V −V .
GS T
The resulting equivalent input voltage is now what we expected. It contains a factor of two
for the two halves. Also it contains the g ratio, which is typical for an active load.
m
If we succeed in making the load V −V small, then we can limit the input noise to the two
GS T
input transistors only. However, if we choose the same V −V for all transistors, or if we have
GS T
bipolar transistors, then the noise of all 4 transistors is equally important!
0451
Differential pairs with large V −V values are actually called transconductors. If we cannot
GS T
make the V −V sufficiently large, because of velocity saturation, we can still add resistors. In
GS T
both cases we assume equal resistors and we also take g R>1.
m
For small signals both realizations are equivalent. Indeed their gains are the same.
How about noise?
First of all, we notice that in the first case, DC current I /2 flows through the resistors R,
B
which is not true in the second case. We therefore need a larger DC supply voltage.
Moreover, the noise performance is quite different. In the first case the equivalent input noise
voltage is the noise contributed by both resistors. This is because for g R>1, the transistor
m
noise is negligible.