172 Chapter #5
some biasing current through the follower. This may not be the real solution for low-power
design.
The second technique is using a cascode instead. Its DC current is pulled out of the Source.
A pMOST can be used as well, provided DC current is injected into the Source.
Again, the AC feedback current can flow but not the feedforward current.
The zero simply vanishes, but again at the cost of some additional biasing current. This
problem can be solved as shown on the next slide.
The third technique does not require any biasing current. This is why it is often preferred in
low-power amplifiers.
0544
There are three ways to
abolish the positive zero.
For the first two, it is easy
to see that the feedforward
current is blocked. The third
technique is more difficult to
understand.
The first technique con-
sists of putting a source
follower in series with the
compensation capacitance.
The feedback is still present
but the feedforward current
flows through the source fol-
lower to the positive supply,
without affecting the output.
Putting this source follower in the expression of the gain, gives as a result that the numerator
has gone. There is no more zero. It is now an easy way to solve this problem. However, we need
some biasing current through the follower. This may not be the real solution for low-power design.
The second technique is using a cascode. Its DC current is pulled out of the Source. A pMOST
can also be used, provided DC current is injected into the Source.
Again, the AC feedback current can flow but not the feedforward current.
The zero simply vanishes, but again at the cost of some additional biasing current. This
problem can be solved as shown on the next slide.
The third technique does not require any biasing current. This is why it is often preferred in
low-power amplifiers.
0545
A good example of the use of the second technique is shown in this slide.
It is a telescopic cascode followed by a single-transistor amplifier as a second stage.
The compensation capacitance C is no longer connected between the output and input of the
c
second stage. It takes a path through one of the cascodes, avoiding the positive zero.
The second technique is used quite often as it does not require any additional biasing current!