Stability of operational amplifiers 165
This pole f is determined by the other capacitance, i.e. the load capacitance C . The time
nd L
constant is given by the product of this load capacitance C and the resistance seen by it. This
L
is resistor R but especially resistance 1/g , offered by the second stage, across which C acts
L m2 c
as a short-circuit at these high frequencies, where f is expected to occur.
nd
Indeed the second stage is usually a single transistor. Its Drain is then connected to its Gate.
Its resistance is simply 1/g .
m2
Therefore, the non-dominant pole is mainly determined by time constant C /g . An exact
L m2
calculation reveals that we have to take into account that a small capacitance C is present at
n1
node 1. The capacitive division C /C is a kind of correction factor. We normally choose
n1 c
capacitor C to be at least three times larger than C .
c n1
0532
Both the GBW and the non-
dominant pole are linked by
the stability requirement.
The f /GBW must be
nd
about three!
Rewriting this provides
an important relationship
between the trans-conduc-
tances on one hand, and the
capacitances on the other.
The correction factor
C /C is simply taken to be
n1 c
0.3. Combining this with the
ratio f /GBW of three, we
nd
obtain a factor of 4.
This relationship shows
why the current in the second stage of a 2-stage opamp always consumes much more power
than the first stage. Indeed for a specific V −V (such as 0.2 V), the transconductances represent
GS T
the currents. Normally, we choose the compensation capacitance to be smaller than the load
capacitance. It is usually 2–3 times smaller.
As a result, the current in the second stage is 8–12 times larger than the current in an input
transistor.
This relationship also shows that a redesign for larger C , requires either a larger C or a
L c
larger g . These are the two techniques, that we will use to compensate a two-stage opamp.
m2
As an example, for a specific GBW and C , the equations can easily be solved to find the two
L
g ’s, provided we firstly choose C !
m c
0533
The stability requirement forces us to position the non-dominant pole at sufficiently high
frequencies (around 3 GBW).