192 Chapter #6
that C can easily be described as a function of the transistor width; the k parameter is
GS
about 2 fF/mm.
Parameter c sets the ratio between f and C . We have taken 3 many times, let us take 2 for
nd c
this example.
The maximum GBW can now easily be described as a fraction c of the non-dominant pole.
Also, note that C can be described in terms of the width of the output transistor. Obviously,
L
the larger the C , the more current we will need to drive it, and the larger the transistor width
L
becomes!
0622
The last expression of C
L
can now be substituted in
the expression of the GBW.
We now take the general
expression of g from the
m
first Chapter on models.
Remember that this is the
expression which spans both
the strong inversion and
velocity saturation regions.
These are the regions which
we will use for high speed.
Substitution of this g
m
expression in the one of the
GBW, yields an expression
in which only V −V and
GS T
L are left as parameters.
This is not surprising at all. We have known all along that these are the two choices that we
have to make for any transistor in the signal path.
It is surprising, however, to find that the maximum GBW does not depend on the load
capacitance.
Actually, increasing the load capacitance increases the width of the output transistor and its
current. The speed of the output transistor mainly depends on its length!
The speed of a MOST is better represented by parameter f . This is why we now try to
T
substitute the transistor parameters V −V and L by parameter f .
GS T T
0623
The expression of parameter f for both the weak inversion and velocity saturation regions are
T
taken from Chapter 1. Clearly, it depends on V −V and L, very much as the GBW does.
GS T
Substitution now yields a final expression of the GBW with only f as a parameter.
T
For the values previously chosen, we find that the maximum GBW is about 1/16 of the f of
T
the output device.
A two-stage Miller CMOS OTA can have a GBW of 5 GHz, provided we select a CMOS
technology where an f of 80 GHz can be obtained. Checking the f curves of Chapter 1, we find
T T