198 Chapter #6
overconsumption in current. As a result, spec 3.3 does not actually exist. For an overdesigned
amplifier it is possible though, to tune the GBW by means of the biasing current.
The Slew Rate and output voltage at high frequencies will be discussed in more detail. They
are just too important.
The settling time is really important for Analog-to-digital converters and all switching applica-
tions. It will be discussed at a later stage.
The input impedance of a CMOS OTA is purely capacitive as the two input C capacitances
GS
appear in series. For a bipolar OTA, resistances have to be added. No more attention will be
paid to them.
The output impedance will be examined, as there is no class-AB output stage.
0633
Many specifications are
dealing with offset and
noise.
Offset has to do with mis-
match between transistors,
capacitors, etc. It can be
reduced by increasing the
size. The CMRR is related
to it. In a sense we have two
specifications, originating
from the same phenomena.
Actually, the PSRR is also
related to it. They are all dis-
cussed in Chapter 15.
The input bias current is
certainly of importance for
a bipolar opamps and maybe in the future for CMOS opamps, if Gate current is present.
The equivalent input noise voltage and current will be discussed in detail.
Capacitive noise matching has been briefly mentioned in Chapter 4. Inductive source imped-
ances are too cumbersome and are left out here.
Finally, distortion is gaining in importance. This is why a whole Chapter is devoted to it
(Chapter 18).
0634
Finally, we have a number of more exotic aspects of opamps.
Connection of an inductor instead of a capacitance as a load may impair the stability. A good
example is a loudspeaker.
Switching a whole opamp in and out is even more exotic. And yet, this is a technique to
realize switched-capacitor filters down to really low supply voltages. Indeed, for these voltages
it is no longer possible to implement switches. Switching the opamp itself is a possible solution.