206 Chapter #6
Actually, this zero is at the frequency where the output resistance of the first stage is taken
over by the impedance of the compensation capacitance C . It is the frequency where the gain
c
of the first stage starts decreasing.
Anyway, for most of the frequency region, the output impedance is quite low. As a result, we
do not need a class AB stage. These latter stages are only necessary to drive off-chip loads. Also,
a line connection at an impedance of a few kV’s does not pick up a lot of noise. It is a good
value for interconnect.
Application of unity-gain feedback causes the output impedance to be divided by the total
gain. Since the pole f is the same for both, it disappears. The zero remains, indicating a wide
d
region which is inductive.
With the load capacitance C included, the impedance Z starts decreasing at the non-
L OUTCL
dominant pole f .
nd
0648
In order to find the equiva-
lent input noise voltage, we
have to introduce the input
noise voltages for the first
and second stages.
They are included in the
small-signal equivalent cir-
cuit shown in this slide.
The input noise of the
input stage is given as well.
Only the two input transis-
tors themselves are in-
cluded. We have assumed
that the current mirror
devices have been designed
for low noise.
The input noise of the second stage is due to transistor M6 only. It is embedded in the circuit
in this slide. Note that it has taken a fairly strange position, in series with the Gate. Therefore,
its effect is not found that easily.
We now have to shift the input noise voltage of the second stage to the input. For this purpose,
we calculate its contribution to the output, and then divide it by the total gain.
The result is shown next.
0649
Both contributions of the noise sources to the output noise are shown in this slide for unity-
gain feedback. The contribution of the input stage drops off at frequencies beyond the GBW.
The second-stage noise however, becomes dominant at high frequencies. The behavior at these
frequencies is most important as noise has to be looked at on a linear frequency scale.
At low frequencies the noise density of the second stage is clearly negligible. It can be divided
by the gain of the first stage squared.
Beyond the zero frequency f , which is the same as for the output impedance, the noise
z
contribution of the second stage starts rising, until it becomes dominant at the highest frequencies.