Important opamp configurations 231
distortion always goes together with lower gain though! Feedback does this too, exchanging
gain for low distortion.
In order to boost the high-frequency performance, two small capacitances are added by means
of transistors M5 and M6. They are added to compensate the input capacitances C of the
GS
input transistors. They are connected to nodes at opposite polarity. For a size of about one
third, compensation can be achieved. This is why they are drawn smaller!
0741
This is the first fully rail-to-
rail amplifier that we will
discuss, is shown in this
slide. It provides rail-to-rail
capability at both the input
and the output. It can be
connected in unity gain as a
buffer. It has a class AB
output stage to be able to
provide large output cur-
rents indeed.
At the input two folded
cascode stages are con-
nected in parallel. The
common-mode input range
thus includes both supply
lines.
Their outputs are applied to two differential current amplifiers, ending up at the Gates of the
two large output devices. These devices are the output stage.
We have a two-stage Miller opamp. The compensation capacitances are clearly distinguished.
However, they connect directly Drain to Gate. Perhaps it is better to find a path through one
of the cascodes. For example C may be better connected to the source of M14!
c2
The Gates of the output transistors are at very high impedance. It may not appear like that
because these nodes are also connected to two Sources of transistors MA3 and MA4. Sources
suggest impedance levels of 1/g . This is not the case here however, as these two transistors are
m
bootstrapped out. This is explained later.
The rail-to-rail input stage can cause large variations in GBW, however. This is examined first.
0742
Indeed, for common-mode or average input signals in the middle, both input stages are in
operation. The total transconductance is now the sum of the transconductances of the nMOSTs
and pMOSTs at the input.
For higher common-mode input signals however, the pMOSTs are shut off. The transconduct-
ance is now only half. The same is true for low common-mode input signals. The total transcon-
ductance has a bell shape versus the input common-mode input voltage, as shown in this slide,
and so does the GBW.
This gives a lot of distortion.