236 Chapter #7
non-dominant pole to high frequencies. As a result, the current mirror in the input stage must
be realized by means of npn devices as well.
This is why non transistors are used at the input. They give small input base currents. These
input npn’s are now put in series with lateral pnp’s, to be able to drive the npn current mirror.
Since all input transistors carry the same current, they all have the same transconductance.
The input transconductance is now reduced by two to g /2. This is only a small loss.
m1
The pnp transistors in the input stage are biased by a common-mode feedback loop. Indeed,
this loop is closed over the input devices and the current mirror Q8/Q9. This loop desensitizes
the DC currents of the input devices from the pnp beta’s.
However, the performance of this bipolar opamp is rather moderate.
0750
A high performance bipolar
opamp is shown in this slide.
It is again a two-stage
opamp as suggested by the
red dots. Its GBW is moder-
ate but its gain is very high.
Its offset is trimmed to very
low values.
This is achieved by using
resistive loads in the first
stage. These resistors can
be trimmed by laser or
other techniques, to very
small values, improving the
Common-mode Rejection
Ratio considerably (see
Chapter 15).
The resistors in the input stage are not as good as active loads, however. They lead to lower
gain. This is why a second stage is used with very high gain.
This second stage consists of a differential voltage amplifier, to which an emitter follower has
been added, as explained next.
0751
The second stage of this amplifier is taken separately. It consists indeed of a differential voltage
amplifier, to which an Emitter follower has been added, as shown in this slide.
This Emitter follower M3 bootstraps out the output resistor r of transistor M2. As a result,
o2
only the output resistance of the input pnp plays a role for the gain. They are lateral devices in
which the output resistance can be made as large as needed.
Moreover, the output impedance R will also be smaller.
out