364 Chapter #13
We will look into these phenomena at a later stage. We first want to examine the four cases
of feedback. The input can be connected in parallel (shunt) or in series, giving rise to four
different cases.
In this Chapter we will focus on voltage and transconductance amplifiers. Both types of
feedback circuits take voltages at the input.
133
An ideal feedback loop
consists of a unidirectional
amplifier (from left to right)
and a unidirectional feed-
back circuit (from right to
left). This amplifier usually
consists of a few transistors
or even a full operational
amplifier. As a result it pro-
vides a lot of gain.
The feedback circuit usu-
ally consists of a few passive
devices. They will set the
closed-loop gain as shown
next.
Two equations describe
the operation of this feedback circuit. The error voltage v is the difference between the actual
e
input voltage v and the feedback voltage Hv . It is amplified towards the output itself by G.
in out
The closed-loop gain is then easily extracted from the two equations. Its numerator is simply
the gain G itself. The denominator however, is 1+GH. The quantity GH is called the loop gain
LG. It is the gain, going around in the loop. Since the gain G is always quite large, the loop
gain is also quite large. As a result the closed-loop gain can easily be approximated by 1/H.
This is the reason why H usually consists of passive devices such as resistors or capacitors.
Their ratio can be made quite accurate. As a result, the feedback amplifier has a closed-loop
gain which is reasonably accurate, whereas the open-loop gain G can vary a lot depending on
transistor parameters, temperature, etc. Feedback is thus the most important technique to realize
amplifiers with accurate gain.
134
One of the simplest cases of feedback is an operational amplifier with a resistor from the output
to the input. Of course, the feedback resistor has to be connected to the negative input. Otherwise
the loop gain would build up an ever-increasing output voltage, only to stop at the positive
supply voltage. Stable feedback is always negative feedback.
This is a case of shunt (or parallel) feedback at both input and output. Output shunt feedback
means that the output terminal is in parallel with the feedback element terminal. This is also the
case at the input.
The gain of the amplifier itself is A , which is also quite large, between 10.000 and 1.000.000.
0
This is also the loop gain LG, as will be calculated on the next slide.