OVset and CMRR: random and systematic 429
The crossover region is quite large however, as can be expected near the cross-over between
weak and strong inversion (explained in Chapter 1).
1517
Besides the offset voltage, a
differential pair has another
specification, which also
reflects the influences of
the spreadings. It is the
CMRR or Common-mode
Rejection Ratio.
Remember (from Chap-
ter 3) that a differential pair
has two inputs, which are
better converted into a
differential input v and a
id
common-mode (or average)
input v . The same applies
ic
to the outputs. In this way
insight can be built up about
the actual operation.
As a result, we find four different gains. Up till now we have concentrated on the differential-
to-differential gain A . This gain is easy to calculate as it is the differential output voltage v
dd od
obtained for a differential input voltage v , when the common-mode input voltage v is zero.
id ic
In this case the differential-to-common-mode gain A does not play a role.
dc
If the differential pair is driven with a common-mode voltage however, the gain A may come
dc
in. It is defined as the differential output voltage v obtained for a common-mode input voltage
od
v , when the differential input voltage v is zero. This situation is sketched in this slide. A
ic id
common-mode input voltage v is applied and the differential output voltage v is measured.
inc od
The ratio of the two gains is the CMRR. It is infinity if gain A (and not A !) is zero. Note
dc cc
also that the CMRR does not play a role for a purely differential drive (v =0).
ic
1518
In order to calculate the CMRR, we need to calculate the gain A . A common-mode input
dc
voltage v is then applied and the differential output voltage v is measured.
inc od
It is clear that no differential output voltage v can be detected if no delta’s occur. Both input
od
Gates and the common-Source point carry the same signal. The currents in both transistors are
now the same and for equal load resistors R the output voltages are also the same. The
L
differential output voltage is then zero.
Let us assume that a difference in load resistor is now present. Both transistors are still equal.
In this, case the input voltage v causes a small current i to flow through the output resistance
inc c
R of the current source. This current is divided equally through both transistors and reaches
B