Switched-capacitor filters 497
switch with specific dimensions (W/L) can help as well (see right). When the nMOST in the
signal patch is switched out, its charge is taken up by the dummy nMOST switch, which is
switched in. It is only half the size because we assume that the capacitances on both ends are
the same. The same applies to the charge of the pMOSTs.
Clock skew (delay in time) and different rise and fall times may render the charge compensation
incomplete but these are only second-order effects. The main difficulty with the dummy switch
is that the relative impedances (capacitors) must be known on both ends. If not, addition of a
dummy switch may make things worse!
Let us have a closer look at this compensation technique.
1725
This graph shows what frac-
tion of the charge DQ/Q
charge goes left and right,
when a MOST switch is
switched out. The capaci-
tance at the input is C and
i
at the output C.
On the horizontal axis, a
parameter is used which
includes the steepness of the
clock pulses or simply the
clock speed. It is normalized
by means of some transistor
parameters. High speed
clocks are on the left,
whereas slow clocks are on
the right.
It shows that for high-speed clocks (small B), the charge redistribution is always the same at
both ends. Half of the charge goes left, and half right, irrespective of what the input and output
capacitors are. Dummies are therefore better used.
The picture is very different if the clock has slow edges (B large). In this case, the charge has
time to find out what the capacitances (impedances) are on both sides and obviously flows
towards the highest capacitance (lowest impedance).
For a large C /C ratio, all the charge flows to the output and dummies are required with
i
equally sized transistors. When C equals C, then half the charge flows to the output and a
i
dummy MOST is required of half the size. For a small C /C ratio, no charge flows to the output
i
and a dummy is better not to be used.
In practice, however, the situation is not as clear cut. It is difficult then to find out the right
size of the dummy.
1726
It has become clear from the above discussion that overlap capacitances must be as small as
possible. On top of that, some more parasitic capacitances have to be added.
For example, in the layout on the left, the poly Gate lines cross the Source and Drain lines.
The crossing areas (black) give coupling capacitances to be added to the overlap capacitances.