CMOS ADC and DAC principles 613
caused by, for example, a variation of oxide thickness or a drop in ground line. A symmetric
gradient, on the other hand, can be caused by temperature or packaging stress.
The switching schemes show how the digital codes are transformed into decimal values (or
thermometer code).
Several schemes are compared.
In the sequential switching scheme (on top), the current sources in a given row are turned on
sequentially from the left to the right. The effect on the INL is given in the next slide. It is clear
that this scheme causes large linearity errors due to the accumulation of both graded and
symmetrical errors.
2021
In the conventional sym-
metrical switching scheme,
the current sources are
turned on in a symmetrical
way around the center of the
row. The graded errors are
now cancelled at every two
increments of the digital
input (see left) but the errors
generated by a symmetrical
gradient will accumulate as
indicated on the right.
In the hierarchical sym-
metrical switching scheme,
the current sources are
turned on around the first
and the third quarter of the current sources row. Two different schemes are now possible. In
scheme A, the symmetrical error generated by current source 1 is cancelled by current source 2,
while the graded error caused by the current source pair (1,2) is cancelled by the current source
pair (3,4).
In switching scheme B, the errors caused by the linear gradient are cancelled out at current
source level while the symmetrical errors are cancelled at the current source pair level.
As a result, in type A, the INL error is about the same for both the graded and the symmetrical
error distribution whereas in type B, the INL error caused by the symmetrical error distribution
is twice as large as the one caused by the graded error distribution.
Therefore, the hierarchical symmetrical scheme A has been preferred.
It is obvious that such heuristics may not yield optimum results. Optimization algorithms
such as the Q2 random walk switching scheme have been used to achieve 14 bit conversion
(Ref. Van Der Plas, JSSC Dec. 1999, 1708–1718).
2022
Since two D/A converters that are processed in the same technology do not necessarily have the
same specifications due to technological variations, it is of the utmost importance to know the
precise relationship that exists between the specifications of the circuit and the matching proper-
ties of the used technology.