638 Chapter #21
them use series resistors at the input, some others use full feedforward. They are discussed and
compared on the basis of a commonly agreed Figure of Merit.
213
A Sigma-Delta Analog-to-
digital converter samples
the incoming analog signal
at a frequency, which is
much higher than needed.
The minimum sampling
frequency according to
Nyquist, is twice the maxi-
mum frequency of the
incoming signal. For low-
quality speech, the band-
width is limited to 3.4 kHz.
The minimum sampling fre-
quency would be 6.8 kHz.
An ECG (Electro Cardio
Gram) is limited to about
150 Hz. Its minimum sampling frequency would be 300 Hz.
In Sigma-Delta ADCs the sampling frequency is much higher, 20 to 1000 times, depending on
the application. The ratio of this sampling frequency to the minimum Nyquist sampling frequency
is called the oversampling ratio (OSR). It is the first design parameter in a Sigma-Delta converter.
The more the incoming signal is over-sampled, the more the signal information is emphasized
with respect to the noise. As a result, the SNR (Signal-to-Noise Ratio) will be higher for an
higher oversampling ratio (OSR). The resolution of the ADC will be higher for an higher
oversampling ratio (OSR).
We can state that the high oversampling leads to higher resolution. A Sigma-Delta ADC
exchanges speed for resolution.
To effectively obtain this higher SNR however, the noise must be filtered out. This is achieved
by noise shaping. This is realized by a filter H(f ).
A Sigma-Delta converter consists of a feedback loop with a filter and a quantizer, which
carries out the AD Conversion. The feedback loop is closed over a DAC. A prefilter (anti-aliasing
filter) is required to make sure the incoming bandwidth is limited. A post filter (decimator filter)
is applied to lower the sampling frequency to what satisfies Nyquist.
214
The largest error in such an ADC converter is the quantization noise. This is actually not noise
but the difference between the original analog signal and the analog signal, quantized with a
limited number of bits.
An example is shown in this slide. The original analog signal is the dotted sine wave. The
sampled and quantized analog signal for 4 bit (or 16 steps) is shown in full line. The difference
is in the middle. It is small in amplitude, depending on the number of bits (B) taken. Moreover,
it contains many different frequencies. This is why it is called noise. It is the quantization noise.
It is the noise which determines the Signal-to-Noise ratio of the converter and hence its resolution.