L ow-power sigma-delta AD converters 645
where both transistors conduct. This region disappears when the supply voltage is lowered to a
value which is roughly the sum of the two V ’s or 1.8 V in this example.
T
As a consequence, such a transmission gate with a nMOST/pMOST parallel combination
cannot be used any longer for supply voltages below the sum of the V ’s. This is 1.8 V in this
T
example. For present days V ’s of
T
0.35 V, this is about 0.7 V. This is lower than 1 V, but not significantly!
2116
What solutions are available
for using switches at supply
voltages below the sum of
the threshold voltages?
The first one is to ask for
a modification in technol-
ogy. Normally the V ’s are
T
determined for optimum
performance of the digital
part. This means that nowa-
days two different oxide
thickness are often avail-
able. The thinner ones offer
lower V ’s and higher
T
speeds. The thicker ones
provide larger values of V
T
and lower leakage currents. This latter is the low-power process.
The high-speed process now provides lower V values. It is ideally suited to provide switches
T
which can switch all input voltages. The leakage current is higher, however. As a result, the
switch may be difficult to switch off !
Another solution is to use voltage multipliers. They are circuits which provide DC output
voltages which are higher than the supply voltage V . This higher voltage can now be used to
DD
drive the Gates of the switches.
The main problems of such multipliers are their low power efficiency. Moreover, they may
cause reliability problems for the thin Gate oxides.
Another alternative is not to use these switches any more, but to switch the preceding opamp.
This is called the switched-opamp approach.
All three alternatives are now discussed in more detail.
2117
The first alternative is to lower the value of the V . Smaller V values require smaller V
T DD T
values! How far can this go?
A small value of V causes the weak-inversion part of the i −v characteristic to cross the
T DS GS
axis of zero V . In other words, even for zero V , some current flows. This is called the leakage
GS GS
current. This means that all digital gates conduct current even when switched off.
Lowering the V causes excessive power consumption. A minimum value seems to be about
T
0.3 V (Ref. Rabaey).
Most chips operate at higher temperatures, however. Chip temperatures of up to 100°C higher