Design of crystal oscillators 685
a negative resistance Re(Z ) equal to −R . This will yield a minimum value of transconduct-
c s
ance g .
m
Also, the imaginary part of the crystal must equal the negative Imaginary part of the circuit
Im(Z ). Since this is an inductor, the circuit must present a capacitance, as expected. This
c
expression will yield the actual oscillation frequency or the pulling factor p.
2216
To avoid having to solve
complicated expressions, we
resort to a graphical
method. The impedance Z
c
presented by the circuit is
plotted in the polar
diagram.
It is a half circle (see
Appendix Polar diagrams)
which starts on the
Imaginary axis for zero g
m
and ends up on the same
axis for infinite g . Where
m
this half circle intersects the
line of −R , the first
s
Barkhausen oscillation con-
dition is satisfied. Indeed, in this point A, the circuit presents a negative resistance −R , which
s
exactly compensates the damping resistor R of the crystal. Oscillation is therefore guaranteed.
s
Moreover, the second Barkhausen condition teaches us that in point A, the Imaginary part
gives the pulling factor and therefore the actual frequency. This Imaginary part is very close
however, to the Imaginary part at zero g . This latter one is easily calculated as it is a combination
m
of capacitances (see Appendix Polar diagrams).
Stable oscillation is achieved for a well defined crossing point A. The circle must be large,
which now requires a small capacitor C .
3
For a small pulling factor p, we need to have large capacitors C and C . They are usually
1 2
taken at the same. Large capacitors C will require a large current, however. This is the
1,2
compromise to be taken!
2217
A numerical example is shown in this slide. Also, the expressions of the pulling factor p and
A
the transconductance g at point A are added (see Appendix Polar diagrams).
mA
Capacitance C is taken to be as small as possible. It cannot be smaller than the crystal
3
package capacitance, however!
The circle has a diameter of 12 kV. For zero g , the Imaginary part is −4 kV. Point A is
m
actually much closer to the Imaginary axis than drawn, since R is relatively small.
s
At point A, the transconductance g is 11 mS, and increases along the half circle to infinity.
mA
It is obviously proportional to the damping resistor R , and also to the square of capacitor C
s 1
(=C ) and the series resonance frequency. The realization of a GHz oscillator will require a
2
large current!