682 Chapter #22
However, between both resonant frequencies the crystal behaves as an inductor. The transitions
are very steep because the quality factor is so high. The crystal now behaves as an inductor from
the series resonant frequency f to the parallel resonant frequency f .
s p
We will use this inductor to make an oscillator together with a capacitive amplifier. We want
this oscillator to operate as close as possible to the series resonant frequency f as this is the
s
frequency which is the closest to the internal electromechanical operation of the crystal. Moreover,
it is the frequency which is the least dependent on the package and mounting capacitances,
which are hard to predict.
We will see however, that it is impossible to make an oscillator at the series resonant frequency
f . It would take infinite current! We will try to be as close as possible however, depending on
s
the current that we are allowed to use. This will be the only free design choice!
2211
The actual expressions of
the series resonant fre-
quency f and the parallel
s
resonant frequency f are
p
given in this slide. The series
one is as described in this
slide. The parallel resonant
frequency f on the other
p
hand is determined by both
capacitances in series, as
clearly found by inspection
of the model. This frequency
is always somewhat larger
than the series one. If we
find that C is about 200
p
times larger than C , then
s
v 2 is approximately 0.5% larger than v 2. Also, v is now about 0.25% larger than v .
p s p s
The impedance of the series RLC circuit can now be described as given in this slide. We will
rewrite this impedance now after introduction of the pulling factor p.
This pulling factor p is the dimensionless parameter which says how far the actual operating
frequency is from the series resonance frequency f .
s
Introduction of this factor p and of the frequency f , gives another expression of the impedance
s
of the series RLC circuit. It says that this impedance is a resistor R in series with an inductor.
s
This inductor is larger the more we deviate from series resonance. We will use this simple model
to find the oscillation condition of the oscillator.
2212
The terms series or parallel resonance are often attributed to the circuit configuration. We will
see that this is wrong, however!
Series and parallel resonance have only to do with the operating point of the oscillator.
For zero or very small pulling factor p, the operating point is close to f . In this case, we
s
clearly have a series oscillator. For a fairly large p, the operating point is close to f . We will
p