Coupling eVects in mixed analog-digital ICs 763
that all mixed-signal circuits must be made full-differential. As a result, the power consumption
increases drastically (more than doubles!).
For full-differential circuitry, the limit is now reached by mismatch. This is also the case for
CMRR. Actually, what the PSRR is for the rejection of power-supply-line noise is the CMRR
for the rejection of ground noise.
Its definition is therefore easily established.
2440
This Bode diagram shows
the gain A of an amplifier
v
for a differential input. It is
high at low frequencies (A )
v0
but decreases with a slope of
−20 dB/decade until the
GBW is reached.
The gain A of this
DD
amplifier is also shown with
the positive power supply
v as an input. It is rather
DD
low at low frequencies
(A ) but does not change
DD0
all that much at high fre-
quencies. The reason is that
at high frequencies, capaci-
tive coupling prevents the output voltage to become really small. The output becomes constant
as a result of a ratio of some capacitors, usually the load capacitor C and some parasitic
L
coupling capacitor C . If C is 2 pF and C is 0.1 pF, the ratio is now 20 or 26 dB.
n L n
The PSRR is now defined as the ratio of the gain A to the differential input to the gain A
v DD
of the supply voltage. It is high at low frequencies and low at high frequencies. At the GBW
however, the gain A is unity. At this frequency, the PSRR equals the inverse of the gain A .
v DD
It is an excellent measure of the PSRR at high frequencies.
For the example in this slide, the PSRR is 26 dB at the GBW.
At this frequency, the PSRR is rather small, because it is a ratio of two capacitors, the load
capacitor and some parasitic coupling capacitor.
2441
What components play an important role in PSRR?
An example is given in this slide of a current amplifier. The impedance at the Gates of
transistors M1 and M2 is low. Does this mean that the PSRR is large at high frequencies?
At low frequencies, all capacitances can be left out. In this case, output resistor r determines
o
the current to the current mirror. The output current is therefore small.
At high frequencies, the parasitic coupling capacitance C takes over the role of r . The current
p o
to the current mirror now increases with frequency and so does the output current. The gain of